Lecture Monday, June 4th.

Complex system  : not a simple system, like classical physical problems.
                : many degrees of freedom, high degree of individuality of the units in the system.
                : strong coupling.
                : a hard variant are the intractable problems, problems not solvable in a short enough time.

Characteristics of complex systems
                : emergence, types; unfolding (dynamical emergence, i.e. 2+2=4), combinatorial (whole > sum of parts, 2H + O -> H2O), statistical (patterns), symmetry emergence.
                : unpredictability, chaotic patterns due to coupling (chaos theory).
                : scalability, often given and easy to handle.
                : incomplete levels, for instance slow variables and cross level phenomena (for instance quantum phenomena)
                : sometimes no level in complex systems, for instance the bank ranks

Logical depth   : the smallest number of steps from axioms to theorem (usually not known).

Kolmogorov complexity
                : the smallest size by which a string can be described.



Lecture Tuesday, June 5th.
(Cellular automata, see slides on BB)

Slide 9         : transition function incorrect.
Slide 11        : Universal Computation; being able to compute any Türing machine.
Slide 15        : k in table should be k-1.
Slide 25        : transient state, can be reached but only once. All finite state machines are cyclic.
Slide 27        : 1/f noise, noise spectrum.
Slide 37        : reproducability is also an advantage.



Lecture Wednesday, June 6th.
(Agent-based modeling, see slides on BB)



Lecture Monday, June 11th.
(Network Modeling, see slides on BB)

Complex network        : Part of the set of interesting graphs, rather than just random networks/graphs.
Clustering Coefficient : Measure for the number of triangles in a network.



Lecture Tuesday, June 12th.
(Random Graphs, see slides on BB)

At the phase transition the cluster size scales with a power law.


Lecture Wednesday, June 13th.
(Watts-Strogatz networks)

Combining small-world networks with clustering.
Weak links make the system work, for instance jobs are mostly gained through acquintances in stead of friends.
Power law systems are scale-free systems.
Power law distributions are never really realistic, no people with 10^6 friends!
Logarithmic path length is important for small-world properties.
